-: Welcome back.
In this lecture,
we are going to interact with our pod
so we can get the pod logs
and then view the pod logs or stream our pod logs
and even we can connect to our container inside the pod.
All those things we are going to do now.
So let's start with the pods now.
So we can dump our pod logs using Cube CTL logs
and our pod name.
So, and even we can stream the pod logs using -F.
So let's see both of these things now.
So we already have our My First Pod here
so let me paste it.
And Cube CTL logs My First Pod.
And it dumped all the pod logs here, which is nothing but
we are going to access the root context
in our EngineX application
and then it is serving the content.
So now let me do Cube CTL logs -F.
So to stream the logs, right?
My First Pod.
So now we have the logs here so I'm just entering
and then I'll try to access something
and then our logs should come here.
So let me go here and then say enter, and we got it, right?
So this is one more.
And I will say /index.html and then access it, right?
So we got it, we can see it, right?
So /index.html.
So we can even stream our logs using -F command.
So let me type Control C and go back here.
And that's about the pod logs.
In addition to that, you can refer this link
for Cube CTL cheat sheet where you'll have lots of
lots of commands for your understanding.
Mainly Cube CTL logs and then logs related options, right?
So if you see here, Cube CTL logs, right?
So there will be multiple options available here
to interact with our pods.
So with the -L or -F or with -C,
which means if we have multiple containers
and then specific container logs if you want then,
we can even provide the -C
and the container name to get that respective
container logs.
So all these things we can see
and then all these are important commands for us
when we are troubleshooting our issues on the application.
Whenever we deploy applications
and there are issues to troubleshoot,
all these will be very helpful for us.
So now the next thing is to go and then connect to our pod.
So let's do that using Cube CTL exit command, okay?
So using this command, Cube CTL exit -IT
and then pod name and then --.
Ours is a Bash, so we will go and then access it,
which means my container is using Bash.
So let's access it.
And now I will be in my container.
So it is in my My First Pod.
So you can see here,
I am in my My First Pod in my container.
So I can say LS and then I can type the commands.
I can go to USR share EngineX HTML and then I can say
I'll have my index.html here,
I can say CAT index.html.
You can see the same content
whatever you have seen on the browser right here.
Welcome to Stack Simplify Fundamentals and More
and then application V1, the same thing you are seeing.
So you from, again, if you want to exit your container,
say exit, and then you are back to my MacBook Pro
which is your Cube CTL area.
So now that's about connecting to the containers.
And you can even instead of connecting
and then going inside and running it,
so you can directly run outside itself,
which means from your Cube CTL itself,
you can add the command and then run it.
So Cube CTL exec -IT and your pod name
and the command you want to run inside your
respective container is ENV or LS or CAT,
all these things directly you can run here.
So let's run it and then see.
It will paste the environmental variable of our
respective container.
So you can see Kubernetes service pod
and then Kubernetes pod,
all these information from our container we are getting.
In the same way,
you can do LS or you can do CAT.
Again, we'll do index.html CAT for us.
So let's do that now.
So we got the output Kubernetes fundamentals demo.
And the next step is to get the YAML output of a pod
and a service.
So just to see our YAML definition,
so we can even use Cube CTL get pod and the pod name
and then -O YAML instead of -O Wide,
what what we are doing, now you can say YAML
so that we'll get the YAML definition of our respective pod.
So all this it provides in the YAML format.
In the same way, you can do the same for your service.
So you can copy and then past it here.
Okay.
So that's all.
So now, this completes the interacting with pod
and then getting the information about our pod
and all those things.
So now you can see here in our YAML definition for service,
one important thing is see the node pod is 31084
and the pod is 80 and the target pod is 80.
So now you can even try for service three,
whatever we have created, right?
So node pod is 31961 and pod is 81,
which is nothing but your service pod is 81
and your target pod which is your container pod is 80.
So that's about the information
about the pods and your service.
You can see in the YAML definition, whatever it has created.
So now in our next lecture,
we'll move on with the cleaning up
whatever we have created.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.